README.md, before:

# Apache 2.4 Docker

[![Devilbox](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cytopia/devilbox/master/.devilbox/www/htdocs/assets/img/devilbox_80.png)](https://github.com/cytopia/devilbox)

<sub>This Docker image is part of the **[devilbox](https://github.com/cytopia/devilbox)**.</sub>

**[Apache 2.2](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-apache-2.2) | Apache 2.4 | [Nginx stable](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-nginx-stable) | [Nginx mainline](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-nginx-mainline)**

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cytopia/docker-apache-2.4.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/cytopia/docker-apache-2.4) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/version/cytopia/apache-2.4.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/cytopia/apache-2.4 "apache-2.4") [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/cytopia/apache-2.4.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/cytopia/apache-2.4 "apache-2.4") [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/license/cytopia/apache-2.4.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/cytopia/apache-2.4 "apache-2.4")

This image is based on the official **[Apache 2.4](https://hub.docker.com/_/httpd)** Docker image and extends it with the ability to have **virtual hosts created automatically** when adding new directories. For that to work, it integrates two tools that will take care about the whole process: **[watcherd]()** and **[vhost-gen]()**.

From a users perspective, you mount your local project directory into the Docker under `/shared/httpd`. Any directory then created in your local project directory wil spawn a new virtual host by the same name. Additional settings such as custom server names, PHP-FPM or even different Apache templates per project are supported as well.

----

Find me on **[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/cytopia/apache-2.4)**:

[![cytopia/apache-2.4](http://dockeri.co/image/cytopia/apache-2.4)](https://hub.docker.com/r/cytopia/apache-2.4/)

<small>**Latest build:** 2017-09-30</small>

----


## Usage

#### Automated virtual hosts

1. Automated virtual hosts can be enabled by providing `-e MASS_VHOST_ENABLE=1`.
2. You should mount a local project directory into the Docker under `/shared/httpd` (`-v /local/path:/shared/httpd`).
3. You can optionally specify a global server name suffix via e.g.: `-e MASS_VHOST_TLD=.local`
4. You can optionally specify a global subdirectory from which the virtual host will servve the documents via e.g.: `-e MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT=www`
4. Allow the Docker to expose its port via `-p 80:80`.
5. Have DNS names point to the IP address the docker runs on (e.g. via `/etc/hosts`)

With the above described settings, whenever you create a local directory under your projects dir, such as `/local/path/mydir`, there will be a new virtual host created by the same name `http://mydir`. You can also specify a global suffix for the vhost names via `-e MASS_VHOST_TLD=.local`, afterwards your above created vhost would be reachable via `http://mydir.local`.

Just to give you a few examples:

**Assumption:** `/local/path` is mounted to `/shared/httpd`

| Directory | `MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT` | `MASS_VHOST_TLD` | Serving from <sup>(*)</sup> | Via                  |
|-----------|----------------------|------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|
| work1/    | htdocs/              |                  | /local/path/work1/htdocs | http://work1         |
| work1/    | www/                 |                  | /local/path/work1/www    | http://work1         |
| work1/    | htdocs/              | .loc             | /local/path/work1/htdocs | http://work1.loc     |
| work1/    | www/                 | .loc             | /local/path/work1/www    | http://work1.loc     |

<sub>(*) This refers to the directory on your host computer</sub>

**Assumption:** `/tmp` is mounted to `/shared/httpd`

| Directory | `MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT` | `MASS_VHOST_TLD` | Serving from <sup>(*)</sup> | Via                  |
|-----------|----------------------|------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|
| api/      | htdocs/              |                  | /tmp/api/htdocs          | http://api           |
| api/      | www/                 |                  | /tmp/api/www             | http://api           |
| api/      | htdocs/              | .test.com        | /tmp/api/htdocs          | http://api.test.com  |
| api/      | www/                 | .test.com        | /tmp/api/www             | http://api.test.com  |

<sub>(*) This refers to the directory on your host computer</sub>

You would start it as follows:

```shell
docker run -it \
    -p 80:80 \
    -e MASS_VHOST_ENABLE=1 \
    -e MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT=www \
    -e MASS_VHOST_TLD=.local \
    -v /local/path:/shared/httpd \
    devilbox/apache-2.4
```

#### Customization per virtual host

Each virtual host is generated from templates by **[vhost-gen](https://github.com/devilbox/vhost-gen/tree/master/etc/templates)**. As `vhost-gen` is really flexible and allows combining multiple templates, you can copy and alter an existing template and then place it in a subdirectory of your project folder. The subdirectory is specified by `MASS_VHOST_TPL`.

**Assumption:** `/local/path` is mounted to `/shared/httpd`

| Directory | `MASS_VHOST_TPL` | Templates are then read from <sup>(*)</sup> |
|-----------|------------------|------------------------------|
| work1/    | cfg/             | /local/path/work1/cfg/       |
| api/      | cfg/             | /local/path/api/cfg/         |
| work1/    | conf/            | /local/path/work1/conf/      |
| api/      | conf/            | /local/path/api/conf/        |

<sub>(*) This refers to the directory on your host computer</sub>

#### Customizing the default virtual host

The default virtual host can also be overwritten with a custom template. Use `MAIN_VHOST_TPL` variable in order to set the subdirectory to look for template files.

#### Enabling PHP-FPM

PHP-FPM is not included inside this Docker container, but can be enabled to contact a remote PHP-FPM server. To do so, you must enable it and at least specify the remote PHP-FPM server address (hostname or IP address). Additionally you must mount the data dir under the same path into the PHP-FPM docker container as it is mounted into the web server.

**Note:** When PHP-FPM is enabled, it is enabled for the default virtual host as well as for all other automatically created mass virtual hosts.

#### Disabling the default virtual host

If you only want to server you custom projects and don't need the default virtual host, you can disable it by `-e MAIN_VHOST_DISABLE=1`.


## Options

#### Environmental variables

This Docker container adds a lot of injectables in order to customize it to your needs. See the table below for a detailed description.

##### Required environmental variables

`PHP_FPM_SERVER_ADDR` is required when enabling PHP FPM.

##### Optional environmental variables (general)

| Variable | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| DEBUG_ENTRYPOINT    | int    | `0`     | Show settings and shell commands executed during startup.<br/>Values:<br/>`0`: Off<br/>`1`: Show settings<br/>`2`: Show settings and commands |
| DEBUG_RUNTIME       | bool   | `0`     | Be verbose during runtime.<br/>Value: `0` or `1` |
| DOCKER_LOGS         | bool   | `0`     | When set to `1` will redirect error and access logs to Docker logs (`stderr` and `stdout`) instead of file inside container.<br/>Value: `0` or `1` |
| TIMEZONE            | string | `UTC`   | Set docker OS timezone.<br/>(Example: `Europe/Berlin`) |
| NEW_UID             | int    | `101`   | Assign the default Apache user a new UID. This is useful if you you mount your document root and want to match the file permissions to the one of your local user. Set it to your host users uid (see `id` for your uid). |
| NEW_GID             | int    | `101`   | This is useful if you you mount your document root and want to match the file permissions to the one of your local user group. Set it to your host user groups gid (see `id` for your gid). |
| PHP_FPM_ENABLE      | bool   | `0`     | Enable PHP-FPM for the default vhost and the mass virtual hosts. |
| PHP_FPM_SERVER_ADDR | string | ``      | IP address or hostname of remote PHP-FPM server.<br/><strong>Required when enabling PHP.</strong> |
| PHP_FPM_SERVER_PORT | int    | `9000`  | Port of remote PHP-FPM server |

##### Optional environmental variables (default vhost)

| Variable | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| MAIN_VHOST_DISABLE  | bool   | `0`     | By default there is a standard (catch-all) vhost configured to accept requests served from `/var/www/default/htdocs`. If you want to disable it, set the value to `1`.<br/><strong>Note:</strong>The `htdocs` dir name can be changed with `MAIN_VHOST_DOCROOT`. See below. |
| MAIN_VHOST_DOCROOT  | string | `htdocs`| This is the directory name appended to `/var/www/default/` from which the default virtual host will serve its files.<br/><strong>Default:</strong><br/>`/var/www/default/htdocs`<br/><strong>Example:</strong><br/>`MAIN_VHOST_DOCROOT=www`<br/>Doc root: `/var/www/default/www` | 
| MAIN_VHOST_TPL      | string | `cfg`   | Directory within th default vhost base path (`/var/www/default`) to look for templates to overwrite virtual host settings. See [vhost-gen](https://github.com/devilbox/vhost-gen/tree/master/etc/templates) for available template files.<br/><strong>Resulting default path:</strong><br/>`/var/www/default/cfg` |
| MAIN_VHOST_STATUS_ENABLE | bool | `0`  | Enable httpd status page. |
| MAIN_VHOST_STATUS_ALIAS  | string | `/httpd-status` | Set the alias under which the httpd server should serve its status page. |

##### Optional environmental variables (mass vhosts)

| Variable | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| MASS_VHOST_ENABLE   | bool   | `0`     | You can enable mass virtual hosts by setting this value to `1`. Mass virtual hosts will be created for each directory present in `/shared/httpd` by the same name including a top-level domain suffix (which could also be a domain+tld). See `MASS_VHOST_TLD` for how to set it. |
| MASS_VHOST_TLD      | string | `.local`| This string will be appended to the server name (which is built by its directory name) for mass virtual hosts and together build the final domain.<br/><strong>Default:</strong>`<project>.local`<br/><strong>Example:</strong><br/>Path: `/shared/httpd/temp`<br/>`MASS_VHOST_TLD=.lan`<br/>Server name: `temp.lan`<br/><strong>Example:</strong><br/>Path:`/shared/httpd/api`<br/>`MASS_VHOST_TLD=.example.com`<br/>Server name: `api.example.com` |
| MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT  | string | `htdocs`| This is a subdirectory within your project dir under each project from which the web server will serve its files.<br/>`/shared/httpd/<project>/$MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT/`<br/><strong>Default:</strong><br/>`/shared/httpd/<project>/htdocs/` |
| MASS_VHOST_TPL      | string | `cfg`   | Directory within your new virtual host to look for templates to overwrite virtual host settings. See [vhost-gen](https://github.com/devilbox/vhost-gen/tree/master/etc/templates) for available template files.<br/>`/shared/httpd/<project>/$MASS_VHOST_TPL/`<br/><strong>Resulting default path:</strong><br/>`/shared/httpd/<project>/cfg/` |


#### Available mount points

| Docker              | Description |
|---------------------|-------------|
| /etc/httpd-custom.d | Mount this directory to add outside configuration files (`*.conf`) to Apache |
| /var/www/default    | Apache default virtual host base path (contains by default `htdocs/` and `cfg/` |
| /shared/httpd       | Apache mass virtual host root directory |


#### Default ports

| Docker | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 80     | Apache listening Port |


## Examples

#### 1. Serve static files

Mount your local directort `~/my-host-www` into the docker and server those files.

**Note:** Files will be server from `~/my-host-www/htdocs`.
```bash
$ docker run -d -p 80:80 -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default -t cytopia/apache-2.4
```

#### 2. Serve PHP files with PHP-FPM

Note, for this to work, the `~/my-host-www` dir must be mounted into the Apache Docker as well as into the php-fpm docker.

You can also attach other PHP-FPM version: [PHP-FPM 5.4](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-5.4), [PHP-FPM 5.5](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-5.5), [PHP-FPM 5.6](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-5.6), [PHP-FPM 7.0](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-7.0) or [PHP-FPM 7.1](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-7.1)

Each PHP-FPM docker also has the option to enable Xdebug and more, see their respective Readme files for futher settings.

```bash
# Start the PHP-FPM docker, mounting the same diectory
$ docker run -d -p 9000 -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default --name php cytopia/php-fpm-5.6

# Start the Apache Docker, linking it to the PHP-FPM docker
$ docker run -d \
    -p 80:80 \
    -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default \
    -e PHP_FPM_ENABLE=1 \
    -e PHP_FPM_SERVER_ADDR=php \
    -e PHP_FPM_SERVER_PORT=9000 \
    --link php \
    -t cytopia/apache-2.4
```

#### 3. Fully functional LEMP stack

Same as above, but also add a MySQL docker and link it into Apache.
```bash
# Start the MySQL docker
$ docker run -d \
    -p 3306:3306 \
    -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw \
    --name mysql \
    -t cytopia/mysql-5.5

# Start the PHP-FPM docker, mounting the same diectory.
# Also make sure to
#   forward the remote MySQL port 3306 to 127.0.0.1:3306 within the
#   PHP-FPM docker in order to be able to use `127.0.0.1` for mysql
#   connections from within the php docker.
$ docker run -d \
    -p 9000:9000 \
    -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default \
    -e FORWARD_PORTS_TO_LOCALHOST=3306:mysql:3306 \
    --name php \
    cytopia/php-fpm-5.6

# Start the Apache Docker, linking it to the PHP-FPM docker
$ docker run -d \
    -p 80:80 \
    -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default \
    -e PHP_FPM_ENABLE=1 \
    -e PHP_FPM_SERVER_ADDR=php \
    -e PHP_FPM_SERVER_PORT=9000 \
    --link php \
    --link mysql \
    -t cytopia/apache-2.4
```

#### 4. Ultimate pre-configured docker-compose setup

Have a look at the **[devilbox](https://github.com/cytopia/devilbox)** for a fully-customizable docker-compose variant.

It offers pre-configured mass virtual hosts and an intranet.

It allows any of the following combinations:

* PHP 5.4, PHP 5.5, PHP 5.6, PHP 7.0, PHP 7.1 and HHVM
* MySQL 5.5, MySQL 5.6, MySQL 5.7, MariaDB 5 and MariaDB 10
* Apache 2.2, Apache 2.4, Nginx stable and Nginx mainline
* And more to come...

## Version

```
Server version: Apache/2.4.27 (Unix)
Server built:   Sep 19 2017 01:10:42
Server's Module Magic Number: 20120211:68
Server loaded:  APR 1.5.1, APR-UTIL 1.5.4
Server MPM:     event
```

Commit message:

REL-0.10 Move to devilbox namespace

README.md, after:

# Apache 2.4 Docker

[![Devilbox](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cytopia/devilbox/master/.devilbox/www/htdocs/assets/img/devilbox_80.png)](https://github.com/cytopia/devilbox)

<sub>This Docker image is part of the **[devilbox](https://github.com/cytopia/devilbox)**.</sub>

**[Apache 2.2](https://github.com/devilbox/docker-apache-2.2) | Apache 2.4 | [Nginx stable](https://github.com/devilbox/docker-nginx-stable) | [Nginx mainline](https://github.com/devilbox/docker-nginx-mainline)**

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/devilbox/docker-apache-2.4.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/devilbox/docker-apache-2.4) [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/version/devilbox/apache-2.4.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/devilbox/apache-2.4 "apache-2.4") [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/image/devilbox/apache-2.4.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/devilbox/apache-2.4 "apache-2.4") [![](https://images.microbadger.com/badges/license/devilbox/apache-2.4.svg)](https://microbadger.com/images/devilbox/apache-2.4 "apache-2.4")

This image is based on the official **[Apache 2.4](https://hub.docker.com/_/httpd)** Docker image and extends it with the ability to have **virtual hosts created automatically** when adding new directories. For that to work, it integrates two tools that will take care about the whole process: **[watcherd](https://github.com/devilbox/watcherd)** and **[vhost-gen](https://github.com/devilbox/vhost-gen)**.

From a users perspective, you mount your local project directory into the Docker under `/shared/httpd`. Any directory then created in your local project directory wil spawn a new virtual host by the same name. Additional settings such as custom server names, PHP-FPM or even different Apache templates per project are supported as well.

----

Find me on **[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/devilbox/apache-2.4)**:

[![devilbox/apache-2.4](http://dockeri.co/image/devilbox/apache-2.4)](https://hub.docker.com/r/devilbox/apache-2.4/)

<small>**Latest build:** This container is built every night by [travis-ci](https://travis-ci.org/devilbox/docker-apache-2.4).</small>

----


## Usage

#### Automated virtual hosts

1. Automated virtual hosts can be enabled by providing `-e MASS_VHOST_ENABLE=1`.
2. You should mount a local project directory into the Docker under `/shared/httpd` (`-v /local/path:/shared/httpd`).
3. You can optionally specify a global server name suffix via e.g.: `-e MASS_VHOST_TLD=.local`
4. You can optionally specify a global subdirectory from which the virtual host will servve the documents via e.g.: `-e MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT=www`
4. Allow the Docker to expose its port via `-p 80:80`.
5. Have DNS names point to the IP address the docker runs on (e.g. via `/etc/hosts`)

With the above described settings, whenever you create a local directory under your projects dir, such as `/local/path/mydir`, there will be a new virtual host created by the same name `http://mydir`. You can also specify a global suffix for the vhost names via `-e MASS_VHOST_TLD=.local`, afterwards your above created vhost would be reachable via `http://mydir.local`.

Just to give you a few examples:

**Assumption:** `/local/path` is mounted to `/shared/httpd`

| Directory | `MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT` | `MASS_VHOST_TLD` | Serving from <sup>(*)</sup> | Via                  |
|-----------|----------------------|------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|
| work1/    | htdocs/              |                  | /local/path/work1/htdocs | http://work1         |
| work1/    | www/                 |                  | /local/path/work1/www    | http://work1         |
| work1/    | htdocs/              | .loc             | /local/path/work1/htdocs | http://work1.loc     |
| work1/    | www/                 | .loc             | /local/path/work1/www    | http://work1.loc     |

<sub>(*) This refers to the directory on your host computer</sub>

**Assumption:** `/tmp` is mounted to `/shared/httpd`

| Directory | `MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT` | `MASS_VHOST_TLD` | Serving from <sup>(*)</sup> | Via                  |
|-----------|----------------------|------------------|--------------------------|----------------------|
| api/      | htdocs/              |                  | /tmp/api/htdocs          | http://api           |
| api/      | www/                 |                  | /tmp/api/www             | http://api           |
| api/      | htdocs/              | .test.com        | /tmp/api/htdocs          | http://api.test.com  |
| api/      | www/                 | .test.com        | /tmp/api/www             | http://api.test.com  |

<sub>(*) This refers to the directory on your host computer</sub>

You would start it as follows:

```shell
docker run -it \
    -p 80:80 \
    -e MASS_VHOST_ENABLE=1 \
    -e MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT=www \
    -e MASS_VHOST_TLD=.local \
    -v /local/path:/shared/httpd \
    devilbox/apache-2.4
```

#### Customization per virtual host

Each virtual host is generated from templates by **[vhost-gen](https://github.com/devilbox/vhost-gen/tree/master/etc/templates)**. As `vhost-gen` is really flexible and allows combining multiple templates, you can copy and alter an existing template and then place it in a subdirectory of your project folder. The subdirectory is specified by `MASS_VHOST_TPL`.

**Assumption:** `/local/path` is mounted to `/shared/httpd`

| Directory | `MASS_VHOST_TPL` | Templates are then read from <sup>(*)</sup> |
|-----------|------------------|------------------------------|
| work1/    | cfg/             | /local/path/work1/cfg/       |
| api/      | cfg/             | /local/path/api/cfg/         |
| work1/    | conf/            | /local/path/work1/conf/      |
| api/      | conf/            | /local/path/api/conf/        |

<sub>(*) This refers to the directory on your host computer</sub>

#### Customizing the default virtual host

The default virtual host can also be overwritten with a custom template. Use `MAIN_VHOST_TPL` variable in order to set the subdirectory to look for template files.

#### Enabling PHP-FPM

PHP-FPM is not included inside this Docker container, but can be enabled to contact a remote PHP-FPM server. To do so, you must enable it and at least specify the remote PHP-FPM server address (hostname or IP address). Additionally you must mount the data dir under the same path into the PHP-FPM docker container as it is mounted into the web server.

**Note:** When PHP-FPM is enabled, it is enabled for the default virtual host as well as for all other automatically created mass virtual hosts.

#### Disabling the default virtual host

If you only want to server you custom projects and don't need the default virtual host, you can disable it by `-e MAIN_VHOST_DISABLE=1`.


## Options

#### Environmental variables

This Docker container adds a lot of injectables in order to customize it to your needs. See the table below for a detailed description.

##### Required environmental variables

`PHP_FPM_SERVER_ADDR` is required when enabling PHP FPM.

##### Optional environmental variables (general)

| Variable | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| DEBUG_ENTRYPOINT    | int    | `0`     | Show settings and shell commands executed during startup.<br/>Values:<br/>`0`: Off<br/>`1`: Show settings<br/>`2`: Show settings and commands |
| DEBUG_RUNTIME       | bool   | `0`     | Be verbose during runtime.<br/>Value: `0` or `1` |
| DOCKER_LOGS         | bool   | `0`     | When set to `1` will redirect error and access logs to Docker logs (`stderr` and `stdout`) instead of file inside container.<br/>Value: `0` or `1` |
| TIMEZONE            | string | `UTC`   | Set docker OS timezone.<br/>(Example: `Europe/Berlin`) |
| NEW_UID             | int    | `101`   | Assign the default Apache user a new UID. This is useful if you you mount your document root and want to match the file permissions to the one of your local user. Set it to your host users uid (see `id` for your uid). |
| NEW_GID             | int    | `101`   | This is useful if you you mount your document root and want to match the file permissions to the one of your local user group. Set it to your host user groups gid (see `id` for your gid). |
| PHP_FPM_ENABLE      | bool   | `0`     | Enable PHP-FPM for the default vhost and the mass virtual hosts. |
| PHP_FPM_SERVER_ADDR | string | ``      | IP address or hostname of remote PHP-FPM server.<br/><strong>Required when enabling PHP.</strong> |
| PHP_FPM_SERVER_PORT | int    | `9000`  | Port of remote PHP-FPM server |

##### Optional environmental variables (default vhost)

| Variable | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| MAIN_VHOST_DISABLE  | bool   | `0`     | By default there is a standard (catch-all) vhost configured to accept requests served from `/var/www/default/htdocs`. If you want to disable it, set the value to `1`.<br/><strong>Note:</strong>The `htdocs` dir name can be changed with `MAIN_VHOST_DOCROOT`. See below. |
| MAIN_VHOST_DOCROOT  | string | `htdocs`| This is the directory name appended to `/var/www/default/` from which the default virtual host will serve its files.<br/><strong>Default:</strong><br/>`/var/www/default/htdocs`<br/><strong>Example:</strong><br/>`MAIN_VHOST_DOCROOT=www`<br/>Doc root: `/var/www/default/www` | 
| MAIN_VHOST_TPL      | string | `cfg`   | Directory within th default vhost base path (`/var/www/default`) to look for templates to overwrite virtual host settings. See [vhost-gen](https://github.com/devilbox/vhost-gen/tree/master/etc/templates) for available template files.<br/><strong>Resulting default path:</strong><br/>`/var/www/default/cfg` |
| MAIN_VHOST_STATUS_ENABLE | bool | `0`  | Enable httpd status page. |
| MAIN_VHOST_STATUS_ALIAS  | string | `/httpd-status` | Set the alias under which the httpd server should serve its status page. |

##### Optional environmental variables (mass vhosts)

| Variable | Type | Default | Description |
|----------|------|---------|-------------|
| MASS_VHOST_ENABLE   | bool   | `0`     | You can enable mass virtual hosts by setting this value to `1`. Mass virtual hosts will be created for each directory present in `/shared/httpd` by the same name including a top-level domain suffix (which could also be a domain+tld). See `MASS_VHOST_TLD` for how to set it. |
| MASS_VHOST_TLD      | string | `.local`| This string will be appended to the server name (which is built by its directory name) for mass virtual hosts and together build the final domain.<br/><strong>Default:</strong>`<project>.local`<br/><strong>Example:</strong><br/>Path: `/shared/httpd/temp`<br/>`MASS_VHOST_TLD=.lan`<br/>Server name: `temp.lan`<br/><strong>Example:</strong><br/>Path:`/shared/httpd/api`<br/>`MASS_VHOST_TLD=.example.com`<br/>Server name: `api.example.com` |
| MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT  | string | `htdocs`| This is a subdirectory within your project dir under each project from which the web server will serve its files.<br/>`/shared/httpd/<project>/$MASS_VHOST_DOCROOT/`<br/><strong>Default:</strong><br/>`/shared/httpd/<project>/htdocs/` |
| MASS_VHOST_TPL      | string | `cfg`   | Directory within your new virtual host to look for templates to overwrite virtual host settings. See [vhost-gen](https://github.com/devilbox/vhost-gen/tree/master/etc/templates) for available template files.<br/>`/shared/httpd/<project>/$MASS_VHOST_TPL/`<br/><strong>Resulting default path:</strong><br/>`/shared/httpd/<project>/cfg/` |


#### Available mount points

| Docker              | Description |
|---------------------|-------------|
| /etc/httpd-custom.d | Mount this directory to add outside configuration files (`*.conf`) to Apache |
| /var/www/default    | Apache default virtual host base path (contains by default `htdocs/` and `cfg/` |
| /shared/httpd       | Apache mass virtual host root directory |


#### Default ports

| Docker | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 80     | Apache listening Port |


## Examples

#### 1. Serve static files

Mount your local directort `~/my-host-www` into the docker and server those files.

**Note:** Files will be server from `~/my-host-www/htdocs`.
```bash
$ docker run -d -p 80:80 -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default -t devilbox/apache-2.4
```

#### 2. Serve PHP files with PHP-FPM

Note, for this to work, the `~/my-host-www` dir must be mounted into the Apache Docker as well as into the php-fpm docker.

You can also attach other PHP-FPM version: [PHP-FPM 5.4](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-5.4), [PHP-FPM 5.5](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-5.5), [PHP-FPM 5.6](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-5.6), [PHP-FPM 7.0](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-7.0), [PHP-FPM 7.1](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-7.1), [PHP-FPM 7.2](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-php-fpm-7.2) or [HHVM](https://github.com/cytopia/docker-hhvm-latest).

Each PHP-FPM docker also has the option to enable Xdebug and more, see their respective Readme files for futher settings.

```bash
# Start the PHP-FPM docker, mounting the same diectory
$ docker run -d -p 9000 -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default --name php cytopia/php-fpm-5.6

# Start the Apache Docker, linking it to the PHP-FPM docker
$ docker run -d \
    -p 80:80 \
    -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default \
    -e PHP_FPM_ENABLE=1 \
    -e PHP_FPM_SERVER_ADDR=php \
    -e PHP_FPM_SERVER_PORT=9000 \
    --link php \
    -t devilbox/apache-2.4
```

#### 3. Fully functional LEMP stack

Same as above, but also add a MySQL docker and link it into Apache.
```bash
# Start the MySQL docker
$ docker run -d \
    -p 3306:3306 \
    -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=my-secret-pw \
    --name mysql \
    -t cytopia/mysql-5.5

# Start the PHP-FPM docker, mounting the same diectory.
# Also make sure to
#   forward the remote MySQL port 3306 to 127.0.0.1:3306 within the
#   PHP-FPM docker in order to be able to use `127.0.0.1` for mysql
#   connections from within the php docker.
$ docker run -d \
    -p 9000:9000 \
    -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default \
    -e FORWARD_PORTS_TO_LOCALHOST=3306:mysql:3306 \
    --name php \
    cytopia/php-fpm-5.6

# Start the Apache Docker, linking it to the PHP-FPM docker
$ docker run -d \
    -p 80:80 \
    -v ~/my-host-www:/var/www/default \
    -e PHP_FPM_ENABLE=1 \
    -e PHP_FPM_SERVER_ADDR=php \
    -e PHP_FPM_SERVER_PORT=9000 \
    --link php \
    --link mysql \
    -t devilbox/apache-2.4
```

#### 4. Ultimate pre-configured docker-compose setup

Have a look at the **[devilbox](https://github.com/cytopia/devilbox)** for a fully-customizable docker-compose variant.

It offers pre-configured mass virtual hosts and an intranet.

It allows any of the following combinations:

* PHP 5.4, PHP 5.5, PHP 5.6, PHP 7.0, PHP 7.1 and HHVM
* MySQL 5.5, MySQL 5.6, MySQL 5.7, MariaDB 5 and MariaDB 10
* Apache 2.2, Apache 2.4, Nginx stable and Nginx mainline
* And more to come...

## Version

```
Server version: Apache/2.4.27 (Unix)
Server built:   Sep 19 2017 01:10:42
Server's Module Magic Number: 20120211:68
Server loaded:  APR 1.5.1, APR-UTIL 1.5.4
Server MPM:     event
```
